feat: adding pipeline configuration document (#1907)
odigos-io/odigos: docs/pipeline/configuration.mdx

---
title: "Pipeline Configuration"
sidebarTitle: "Configurations"
---

Odigos sets up an observability pipeline in your Kubernetes cluster to collect, process and export OpenTelemetry data.

<Frame>
    <img src="/images/odigos_pipeline.png" alt="Odigos Pipeline" />
</Frame>

User can configure the following components:

> - **Cluster Gateway Collector** - a collector that runs as a k8s Deployment. It receives the OpenTelemetry data from the Node Collectors, processes it, and exports it to the next component in the pipeline.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Cluster Gateway Collector** - a collector that runs as a k8s Deployment. It receives the OpenTelemetry data from the Node Collectors, processes it, and exports it to the configured destinations
```

### Configuring the Pipeline

Odigos offers two main options for configuring the pipeline:
<Info>

> When configuring the pipeline, you must use **only one of the two methods**—either profiles or directly editing the `odigos-config` ConfigMap. Using both methods will result in configurations overwriting each other, potentially leading to unexpected behavior.

Reviewer: Can we check before applying the sizing profiles if the config exists and ignore / exit with error?

Author: Will add this logic in another PR and their I will also change this message

</Info>

#### 1. Using Profiles

> Profiles are sets of pre-defined rules, specifically sizing profiles (`size_s`, `size_m`, `size_l`), to simplify the configuration of the pipeline. Each profile configures the following parameters for the **Cluster Gateway Collector**:

Reviewer: I think it needs rephrasing
